---
title: Lessons Learned from Leading Penn Labs
date: 2020-05-25T12:15:00-04:00
slug: Labs Looking Back
tags:
  - upenn
  - college
  - pennlabs
description: My record of personal learnings from a year as director of Penn Labs.
---

I just finished writing [a year-in-review blog
post](https://pennlabs.org/blog/year-in-review-19-20/) for the Penn Labs
blog. For some context, [Penn Labs](https://pennlabs.org) is a
student-run software development group that builds apps and websites to
help students navigate life on campus. For the past year, I\'ve been one
of the two co-directors of Labs, managing the operations and direction
of the organization.

I wrote the year-in-review post as a way to highlight the awesome work
the whole team had done this year, and hopefully start a tradition of
outgoing directors doing the same in the future. While I was writing it,
though, I started thinking about what my personal year-in-review would
look like. I\'ve written down my thoughts here, in the form of different
lessons I hope to take with me going forward.

# Delegate

Many clubs at Penn operate with a governing board structure. Labs
currently doesn\'t have any sort of student board outside of the two
Co-Directors. Because of this, the Co-Directors are directly responsible
for everything from managing finances to grabbing supplies for group
work sessions to heading up recruiting efforts. All of these are
critical to the club functioning properly, but it\'s also a ton of
extremely different things for only two people to juggle in their heads
at once.

This year as director really made me realize the power of delegating
responsibilities. We\'re lucky enough in Labs to have a ton of team
leads and members who are just as committed to the organization as the
directors are. Taking advantage of members\' enthusiasm to spread the
work around is a really good way to alleviate stress and take some work
off my plate.

An example that I\'ve caught myself with a lot is email. We get tons of
messages regarding specific products that we run. The directors could
worry about all of these, but it\'s much more time efficient for us to
delegate to team leads regarding their product. It may seem trivial and
obvious to do, but I find if kind of difficult to stop myself from
digging into research required to answer each email we get.

# Communicate

One of the ways to view the director role is as a manager-of-managers.
Directors are in charge of keeping up with team leads and making sure
they have the resources they need to lead their teams. Something my
co-director and I made standard this year was meeting with every team
lead individually to get an update on how their team was working
throughout the semester.

While these were certainly intended as avenues for us to get feedback,
we were sometimes surprised by points that leads brought up in these
on-on-ones which seemed relatively urgent, yet were not raised
beforehand. It\'s easy to wonder exactly what we were doing wrong to not
appear as open to talk to. However, I think the answer lies more in
human nature. When people have issues, especially those with leadership
responsibilities, it\'s natural to try and resolve it on your own. It\'s
up to us as managers to keep in sync with our direct reports and expect
that we\'ll sometimes need to \"pull\" information rather than get it
\"pushed\" to us. Sometimes, the birds-eye view that Directors have in
the organization can be really useful for working through an issue that
a specific team is facing.

The need for communication also manifests itself during the recruitment
cycle. Directors manage the recruitment process. But it\'s important
before the process starts for us to have a good idea of what individual
team needs actually are. If it turns out no team really needs backend
web developers, we should think about how and if we should recruit for
that role.

Final deliberations and team assignments can also get contentious if
talent for a particular role is scarce. It\'s up to directors to mediate
between leads and find a fair solution that everyone can live with.

# Think Big Picture

At this point, Penn Labs runs about 10 services across six product
teams. Before I was director, I was a team lead for Penn Courses, which
solely manages products surrounding course registration. My largest
change in thinking going from team lead to director was having to keep
the priorities of all the different teams within the organization in
mind whenever making a decision. This ties in well with both themes
mentioned above. The only way to get the whole picture is to
continuously communicate with team leads and general members about where
they see their projects going. And the only way to lead a whole
organization effectively is to advise leads while trusting them to make
the right decisions.

It can be tempting to try and force projects in one direction or
another. But I found it important to keep my eyes on the big picture and
leave it up to leads to sweat the smaller things. The more minutiae
directors manage and worry about, the less context individual leads have
to deal with problems that inevitably come up when the directors don\'t
have the bandwidth to handle it.

# Think Long

Maybe not as long as the [Long Now Foundation](https://longnow.org/),
but thinking on a year-plus time horizon is an important responsibility
for directors specifically. Not many software organizations have 100%
turnover every three or four years. In industry, it\'s common to be able
to send a Slack message or walk over to the desk of the person who wrote
the code that you\'re now tasked with changing. As a student
organization, all our members graduate and move on a very regular basis.
It\'s extremely important that we\'re able to transfer knowledge
effectively from older members down to younger members.

It\'s up to directors to remind developers and leads of this reality.
Documentation is always in the back of my mind. Written docs aren\'t a
panacea, but in my opinion, they can\'t hurt when the alternative is
trying to decipher code written years before. We\'ve also started asking
leads in their one-on-ones to make sure they have at least one younger
member in mind to mentor and ultimately to replace them.

# Recruit with Intention

In my opinion, recruitment is the most important job that directors
have. Considering that the 25%/year turn-over rate is a reality that we
have to deal with as a student organization, it\'s important that we
take recruitment seriously and look for prospective members who can
contribute a ton to the club, both from a technical and community
perspective.

## Mentorship and Community

This year, we brought in somewhere around 25 new members in the Fall,
doubling the size of the club to 50 members total. All these roles were
filling needs that teams saw themselves having, especially with a
sizeable senior class graduating in the Spring. While team leads
definitely had work for all our new members to do, we didn\'t
necessarily foresee the reality that if there was a one-to-one ratio
between newbies and oldies, then _every_ oldie would need to be a mentor
to a newbie.

[There](https://hbr.org/2015/03/6-rules-for-building-and-scaling-company-culture)
[are](https://about.crunchbase.com/blog/scaling-culture/)
[tons](https://www.culturesummit.co/articles/scaling-culture-to-1000-employees/)
of articles online about the difficulty of scaling company culture. Labs
is no different here. We pride ourselves on our sense of community, and
our rapid growth made it easier for new members to get lost in the fray.

When thinking big, it\'s also important to think holistically. There\'s
obviously the need for technical bandwidth, but it was important for us
to balance that with our goal to be an amazing and welcoming community
on campus.

# Prove your Concept

By the nature of the projects we\'re working on, we meet pretty
frequently with school administrators. To me, one of the most
interesting parts of the job has been getting to see the inner workings
of how the University makes decisions. It\'s not always the most
exciting process, but I\'ve learned a lot through being director about
how to get your point across to key stakeholders who don\'t necessarily
need your help as much as you need theirs.

One thing that I\'ve found is that an MVP is a powerful tool. One of the
team leads on the Penn Mobile project was able to give students the
ability to book Wharton study rooms through our app by
reverse-engineering the web-based API. This was super brittle: and any
change to the first-party website\'s flow would break our integration as
well. We got in contact with the IT division in charge of developing the
room booking system. After we showed them the demand that students had
for using our mobile app, they agreed to work with us to build an
official API integration. It\'s not for certain, but I really believe
that showing that our reverse-engineered solution was popular was a big
part of us getting our foot in the door in those discussions. A cold
email can certainly go a long way with the right recipient, but showing
that you\'ve already put in sweat to start solving a problem can really
get your foot in the door.

# Conclusion

Obviously, a lot of what I wrote about above is particularly relevant to
leading Penn Labs, and maybe slightly more broadly, to leading a club at
a university. But I think I\'ve learned some more generally applicable
things about leadership along the way.

If I could sum it up in one sentence, I\'ve learned that a big part of
being a leader is being proactive: reach out to reports to check in;
take the initiative to prove out ideas before pitching them to decision
makers; think ahead and anticipate challenges to confront them head-on.

I\'ve loved being director. It\'s helped me give back to an organization
that has been a huge part of my college experience. I\'ve still got a
year left in the club, and I\'m excited to see where it all goes from
here.
