---
title: 2024 Year in Review
date: 2024-12-28
tags: [meta]
draft: false
---

It's that strange week between Christmas and New Year's Day when enough people have left
New York that it makes it impossible to *not* turn introspective. It's been a pretty big
year for me and for this blog, so I thought it would be fun to take a look back on the
year before moving into the second half of the '20s.

### Blog Posts

I wrote four long-form blog posts this year: a fun post on Dune for April Cools and three
in my Nix on macOS series. I've gotten a ton of really encouraging feedback from friends,
acquaintances and internet strangers about my Nix articles. Somehow my TIL post from last
November started ranking well on Google, and my site is one of the first that shows up
when most folks search for "nix darwin".

I've enjoyed writing these and I think this style of writing fills a real niche -- Nix's
docs focus on NixOS and nix-darwin doesn't have much in the way of tutorials. I still have
at least three more posts to write from my original series outline, but we'll see if I
switch tach and write about other things in the new year.

### The Newsletter
One of my goals for 2024 was to write more. I'm not always motivated to write deeper
long-form technical content that I'm happy to put up on the main blog, though, so I took a
page out of Arne Bahlo's playbook and started a link curation newsletter. It's a pretty
rigid structure that still gives me space to express myself, share something interesting,
and flex my writing muscles some more. 

My blurbs about each link follow a bit more from Simon Willison or John Gruber's link
blogs than Arne's summaries -- I try to add some analysis sprinkle in some nuance where I
can. The original goal was to expand some of these blurbs into full blog posts. I haven't
felt the burning desire to do that yet, but we'll see how next year goes.

The newsletter is called Weekly Links, and after a 52 weeks there's... well.. 16
entries. The first 10 came quickly and easily, but I started falling off on the habit in
early March, with over six months between #12 and lucky #13. I don't want to beat myself
up about not following through with the weekly cadence -- I want to make sure I'm writing
these for me, and I've really been enjoying getting back into the habit of writing.

### The theme of the year

I barely had enough articles saved up to fill up my first newletter back from hiatus in
November. Each subsequent week I've had more links than needed to fill up the
newsletter. It's been a great example of how writing for me is a true **positive sum**
activity -- the more I write, the more interesting things I find to write about. Being in
the headspace to write helps tune my attention towards interesting topics during the rest
of the week.

Positive-sum has been the real theme of the year for me. Whether it's writing each week,
running a mile every morning, or working on interesting projects at work, I've discovered
first-hand that energy begets energy. I've struggled with motivation and energy levels in
the past, but this year I've learned that sometimes you just need to kickstart the flywheel.

All of these habits may be self-reinforcing in some ways but they also require active
maintenance. I know I won't be perfect next year, but my goal is going to be to do the
things the things that excite me more often.
