---
title: "Weekly Links #13"
date: 2024-11-24
---

Hey there! I hope everyone has had a great past six months. Life comes at you fast and
when the weather got warm I found it harder to keep the routine of writing every
week. It's getting cold again, I'm back in my coffee shop, and will still be
aspirationally calling this series "weekly" to try and keep myself motivated to write.

Anyways, I've got less than I expected saved up in my Pinboard, but it's enough for a
Weekly, so let's get to it!

<!--more-->

## Learning in Software
- [**Doing is normally distributed, learning is
  log-normal**](https://hiandrewquinn.github.io/til-site/posts/doing-is-normally-distributed-learning-is-log-normal/)
  (Andrew Quinn): An attempt to answer "why is estimation so hard in software
  engineering"? The insight that any substantial task probably requires some time to stop
  and learn something new made a lot of sense to me.
- [**Confusion is a
  muse**](https://notes.eatonphil.com/2024-06-14-confusion-is-a-muse.html) (Phil Eaton):
  Be curious! This feels kind of like a corrolary to the Andrew's post. Stopping to learn
  might slow you down in finishing a task, but it's going to pay dividends for the rest of
  your career.
  
## Programming Languages
- [**You probably wrote half a monad by
  accident**](https://gieseanw.wordpress.com/2024/06/25/you-probably-wrote-half-a-monad-by-accident/)
  (Andy G): I've been wanting to write a post for a while about how monads really are more
  common and less weird than the programming community often gives them credit for. Andy
  mostly beat me to it!
- [**A Dictionary of Single-Letter Variable
  Names**](http://jackkelly.name/blog/archives/2024/10/12/a_dictionary_of_single-letter_variable_names/index.html)
  (Jack Kelly): This was a fun tour of common conventions in everyone's favorite
  write-only programming language.

## Scaling Systems
- [**The Practical Guide to Scaling
  Django**](https://slimsaas.com/blog/django-scaling-performance/): I couldn't agree more
  with the framing of this article -- "Real scaling isn’t about handling hypothetical
  millions of users - it’s about systematically eliminating bottlenecks as you grow." I've
  spent [my fair share of time scaling Django](https://pennlabs.org), and this blog post
  would have been invaluable. While its examples are Django-based, its lessons really
  apply to most database-backed web apps.
- [**Heroku on two standard dynos?**](https://brandur.org/fragments/heroku-two-dynos)
  (Brandur): Discussions around effeciency among different programming languages often
  gets reduced to raw speed of code execution, but your runtime bottlenecks will often lay
  in the I/O operations you have to do. This post was a good reminder of how important
  memory efficiency and concurrency support can be in determining your system
  requirements.
