---
title: "Weekly Links #12"
date: 2024-05-04
---

May the Fourth be with you! It's been a while again, but I'm here with some more links,
and also a bit of a longer reflection to start off the Weekly today.

## Coffee in Mexico City

I spent a week in Mexico City last month. In the morning I would walk around Roma Norte,
the neighborhood I was staying in, looking for an espresso to start my day. At one point I
found a coffee shop that just really spoke to me: I walked in, smiled, and was excited to
order. Stepping back and looking around, I could only think of this snippet from Ezra
Klein's interview with Kyle Chayka that [I linked to back in
January](https://davi.sh/weekly/2024-01-14/):

> **Kyle Chayka**: The generic coffee shop has become my Moby Dick. It was just this strange,
> uncanny experience I was having that as I traveled around the world doing these
> freelance magazine assignments, I would land in a particular city, whether that was
> Tokyo or L.A. or Berlin or Beijing, and I always managed to find a particular style of
> coffee shop. It was this minimalist box of a cafe with white subway tiles on the walls
> and midcentury Scandinavian furniture and handmade ceramic mugs with nice cappuccinos in
> them. And this was not the work of a parent company. It wasn’t a Starbucks. It wasn’t a
> global chain. Instead, it was all of these completely independent coffee shops,
> baristas, entrepreneurs, who had decided to mold themselves into the same aesthetic. So
> I started wondering what connected them all together...
>
> **Chayka**: They were authentically connected to something, but it wasn’t to the geography
> of the place. It wasn’t to the realities of Mexico City or the aesthetics of Chinese
> culture in Beijing. What they were really connected to was our culture that we’ve
> developed on the internet. So we feel this authentic connection. We feel they’re
> connected to our identities and our preferences. But I think the preferences that they
> connect to are the ones that we have developed online that come through platforms like
> Instagram or Yelp or Google Maps.
>
> **Klein**: That ability to have much more familiarity as a traveler going around the
> world — it can be kind of wonderful, but it makes it much more difficult to find that
> confrontation with new experience that helps you discover new things that you like.

Actually experiencing this phenomenon that I'd listened to a conversation about a few
months before was disorienting. There's nothing wrong with finding a place that I like,
resonate with, and which feels comfortable, but part of travel is also getting out of your
comfort zone, and I'm happy I was able to be mindful of that tension.

## Technology and Society
- [**MKBHDs for Everything**](https://stratechery.com/2024/mkbhds-for-everything/) (Ben
  Thompson): Somehow this is the first time I'm linking to Ben Thompson even though he's
  one of my favorite bloggers and podcasters out there. A great post from Ben about how AI
  has the potential to shift the balance of power in other industries in a similar way to
  how the Internet has transformed media over the past two decades.
- [**Losing My Hands**](https://jxnl.co/writing/2024/04/29/losing-my-hands/) (Jason Liu):
  A powerful reflection on purpose and work ethic in America post-pandemic. I really
  enjoyed the asides with philosophy and book recommendations throughout Jason's personal
  narrative.
- [**Being quitely radicalised by being on
  holiday**](https://interconnected.org/home/2024/04/12/radical) (Matt Webb): Travel can
  open our eyes to different perspectives and ways of living. I don't agree that it would
  be easy to "just... take the essentials out of the for-profit bit of the economy", but I
  do think that as automation continues to improve the productivity of individual workers
  society should be re-evaluating whether higher productivity should be the goal in and of
  itself.

## Programming Languages
- [**Swift for C++
  Practitioners**](https://www.douggregor.net/posts/swift-for-cxx-practitioners-value-types/)
  (Doug Gregor): A fantasic series currently with seven parts introducing Swift from a
  member of the Swift core team. I find Swift to be a really interesting language, and
  learning about it through the lens of someone who also has a lot of respect for C++ was
  an interesting perspective when most proponents of more modern languages tend to view
  C++ with derision.
- [**Zed Decoded: Async Rust**](https://zed.dev/blog/zed-decoded-async-rust) (Thorsten
  Ball and Antonio Scandurra): I haven't worked with Async Rust, but showing how the
  runtime can be integrated so deep into macOS was a very interesting read.

## Miscellaneous
- [**What makes a great technical
  blog**](https://notes.eatonphil.com/2024-04-10-what-makes-a-great-tech-blog.html): As
  someone who writes a technical blog, I enjoyed the food for thought here.
- [**Memo on Celestial
  Time**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Celestial-Time-Standardization-Policy.pdf):
  The sci-fi geek in me really enjoyed this: dealing with timezones in computer systems is
  tough enough on Earth -- just wait until folks have to make sure things work properly on
  the Moon too!
