---
title: "Weekly Links #6"
date: 2024-02-03
---

Happy February! I had a high school teacher of mine call month #2 the F-month: a month so terrible it
wasn't even worth naming. While February does tend to be the coldest month here in New York, there's
still plenty to take advantage of -- It's always easier to find tables at my favorite bars when the
weather's bad outside :)

## Software:
- [**Long Term Refactors**](https://max.engineer/long-term-refactors) (Max Chernyak): Every technical
  challenge in a bigger company is also an organizational challenge, this post was an interesting
  breakdown on how to adress both sides of the coin.
- [**Stanchion**](https://github.com/dgllghr/stanchion): Stanchion is a SQLite extension that adds
  column-oriented tables to SQLite. Columnar storage systems are fascinating, and it is cool to see
  how someone was able to tack on column-oriented data structures to row-oriented SQLite. I'd be
  interested to see what performance benefits they're able to get on analytic queries, though.
- [**`jj init`**](https://v5.chriskrycho.com/essays/jj-init): I'd heard of
  [jujitsu](https://github.com/martinvonz/jj) briefly before, but this was an awesome deep dive into
  what kidns of mental models are useful to use it. I'm someone who believes that Git+GitHub has
  some major shortcomings when it comes to code collaboration, and `jj` and
  [Graphite](https://graphite.dev)) are two of the tools I'm excited about.

## Career and Culture
- [**Work hard and take everything
  seriously**](https://macwright.com/2024/01/28/work-hard-and-take-everything-seriously.html) (Tom
  Macwright): This post articulated really well something I'd been thinking about for a while:
  Working hard for the sake of "the grind" is almost never worth it, but if you're personally
  getting something out of the work you put in, the calculus changes. Life is almost never
  zero-sum. It's worth quoting the last three paragraphs:
  
> So, heed the warnings of those 30-somethings about burnout and workplace boundaries. And don’t
> work 24/7 on busywork for a startup if you’re not learning anything.
> 
> You can burn out by going too fast, or your flame can dim because you don’t let yourself spend
> silly amounts of time on silly projects to satisfy your intellectual curiosity. Beware of both
> outcomes: cultivate your enthusiasm for the things you want to hang onto.
> 
> It isn’t a revolutionary idea that people who are excellent in their fields often get there by
> trying really hard. If you can figure out the difference between busy-work that only benefits your
> employer, and the kind of work that makes you as a person feel like you’re making progress and
> becoming more skilled, then you’re ready to learn.


