---
title: "Weekly Links #16"
date: 2024-12-21
---

It was the first snow of the season in New York City last night! Today the sun is shining,
so we'll see how long it actually sticks around for.

I've got fewer articles than normal this week in the newsletter -- I spent more time than
normal reading actual, gosh-darned novels! Taking even more inspriation from [Arne
Bahlo](https://arne.me/library) I might start writing up longer reviews of books I read.

<!--more-->

### Books
- **A Deepness in the Sky** (Vernor Vinge): This was a classic space opera that tackled
  some interesting political and moral themes. Vinge was a computer science professor, and
  one of my favorite parts of the book was the description of "programmer-archaeologist":
  thousands of years after the death of Moore's Law, all software for all tasks has
  already been written by someone, somewhere -- the job of a programmer is mostly to
  decode and tweak old software rather than create new things.

- **Tomorrow, and Tomorrow, and Tomorrow** (Gabrielle Zevin): It's a novel about love,
  life, and video games. The descriptions of how the technical and creative process
  intersect with the human and interpersonal story of the main characters was really
  great. I think this will take the cake for my favorite book of 2024.

### Blogs

- [**The Secret Inside One Million
  Checkboxes**](https://eieio.games/blog/the-secret-inside-one-million-checkboxes/) (Nolen
  Royalty): After discovering Nolen's blog a few weeks ago I've devoured all his
  entries. This story stood out to me as showcasing the Internet at its best.
  
- [**I've had a change of heart regarding employee
  metrics**](http://rachelbythebay.com/w/2024/11/03/metrics/) (Rachel by the Bay):
  Flipping the script on productivity metrics really clicked with me. I can't say it
  better than the article itself:

  > It's the job of a manager to know what their reports are up to, and whether they're
  > doing a good job of it, and are generally effective. If they can't do that, then they
  > themselves are ineffective, and \*that\* is the sort of thing that is the responsibility
  > of THEIR manager, and so on up the line.
  
  From this vantage point, the logical conclusion of the belief that productivity can be
  reduced to commit frequency or lines of code written is that people management itself
  should be automated away.
  
- [**The Best Emacs
  Microfeature**](https://borretti.me/article/the-best-emacs-microfeature) (Fernando
  Boretti): `fill-paragraph` a small thing, but one way to describe Emacs is just a
  collection of tiny building blocks that all can work together.

- [**Advent of Code in Zig**](https://kristoff.it/blog/advent-of-code-zig/) (Loris Cro): A
  tour of Zig through the lens of Advent of Code. I doubt this is acutal content
  marketing, but if it was, I'd say this is some of the most effective content marketing
  you can do.
  
- [**"Rules" that terminal programs
  follow**](https://jvns.ca/blog/2024/11/26/terminal-rules/) (Julia Evans): From one
  perspective UX is the collection of conventions we carry around with us as we interact
  with the digital and physical worlds.
