---
title: "Weekly Links #17"
date: 2024-12-28
---

Is it even worth talking about what weather is and isn't "unseasonable" anymore?

- [**Turing Machines**](https://samwho.dev/turing-machines/) (Sam Rose): *Gödel, Escher,
  Bach* is one of my favorite books and I'm fascinated by computability theory. Sam's
  Turing machine simulator was characteristically amazing, but I wish there was a bit more
  of a look into complexity theory and the progression from regular expressions to Turing
  machines rather than diving straight into the deep end. I was left wondering from an
  off-hand comment in the middle of the piece -- why should "Turing complete" not always
  be the goal? I may be a bit biased by my interest in type systems on this one but I
  think it's a fun question to consider.
- [**Do Not Fix Bugs Reported in Your Open Source
  Projects**](https://code.dblock.org/2024/12/19/do-not-fix-bugs-reported-in-your-open-source-projects.html)
  (Daniel Doubrovkine): The title kind of says it all. As someone who burned out from an
  OSS project, I wish I had read this years ago. Just putting something out there in the
  world for free is a huge lift to do and you're not obligated to make it work for
  everyone.
- [**Narrative jailbreaking for fun and
  profit**](https://interconnected.org/home/2024/12/23/jailbreaking) (Matt Webb): I
  enjoyed how reminiscent these "jailbreaking" sessions were of text-based adventure
  games.
- [**Ephemerality in User
  Interfaces**](https://borretti.me/article/ephemerality-in-user-interfaces) (Fernando
  Boretti): A discussion of how Web 2.0's full-page refreshes had a bunch of positive
  externalities for the web that many sites have lost over the past decade.
- [**Career Advice for New Tech Workers in
  2025**](https://matduggan.com/career-advice-for-new-tech-workers-in-2025-2/) (Mathew
  Duggan): The focus of this piece is less on the tech and more on the work environment: 
  
  > One of the biggest mistakes newcomers make in tech is believing that technical
  > decisions are what truly matter. Spoiler: they’re not.
  > 
  > Projects don’t succeed or fail because of technical issues, and teams don’t thrive or
  > collapse based on coding prowess alone. The reality is this: human relationships are
  > the most critical factor in determining your success. Everything else is just noise
  > that can (usually) be worked around or fixed.

- [**Journalism Requires Owners Committed to the
  Cause**](https://daringfireball.net/2024/12/journalism_requires_owners_committed_to_the_cause)
  (John Gruber): The Washington Post has been in the partisan political discourse
  recently, but John's post dives past that to talk about what good journalism is actually
  about and how it should be best supported anywhere on the political spectrum.
