---
title: "Weekly Links #29"
date: 2025-11-29
---

Welcome to Weekly 29, six days after Weekly 28! Crazy how that works. I'm back in the
Pinboarding habit, which means we have a full and fresh newsletter this week!

## Distributed Systems

- [**Why Strong Consistency?**](https://brooker.co.za/blog/2025/11/18/consistency.html)
  (Marc Brooker): Distributed systems engineers often talk about the _how_ and skim over
  the _why_. I appreciated Marc's explanation of _why_ strong consistency is a useful
  property of a database _as a user_ even if it might be difficult to maintain.

## AI
- [**Compressed Filesystems รก la Language Models**](https://grohan.co/2025/11/25/llmfuse/)
  (Rohan Gupta): This post blew my mind. Everyone normally thinks LLM inference as text
  generation rather than the more fundamental probability distribution that these models
  can produce. I'd heard about arithmetic coding before, but seeing it used in practice to
  turn a probability distribution into compression was really awesome.

- [**Val Town 2023-2025 Retrospective**](https://macwright.com/2025/11/11/val-town.html)
  (Tom MacWright): Tons of startups were pressured by their investors over the past few
  years to integrate AI into their offerings. This is a wider retrospective (and some
  sneaky content marketing for open job positions), but I found it particularly
  interesting how Tom talks about Townie, Val Town's AI coding assistant. Townie was a
  huge driver of user growth, but is also expensive to run. Moving it to a premium feature
  made it pay for itself, but then it's no longer as much of a growth driver. Cutting
  through the hype bubble, it was a small window into the realities of building a
  VC-funded startup that hasn't gone all-in on an AI pivot in the current era.

## Organizations

- [**How good engineers write bad code at big
  companies**](https://www.seangoedecke.com/bad-code-at-big-companies/) (Sean Goedecke):
  Understanding organizations of almost any size is all about understanding
  incentives. Sean provides an in-depth explanation of how larger tech companies can push
  engineers towards mediocrity.

- [**What They Don't Tell You About Maintaining an Open Source
  Project**](https://andrej.sh/blog/maintaining-open-source-project/) (Andrej Acevski):
  This was the most positive view of open source authorship and contribution that I've
  read in a while. It can be easy to get intimidated by the mountain of work that
  ineveitably piles up as an open source maintainer, but Andrej gets motivated rather than
  intimidated by the users that are attracted to a good service. More power to him! I hope
  he's able to monetize it at some point, though -- open source maintainer-ship is a
  fulltime job, and it shouldn't have to be your second one!

- [**Size Matters**](https://matklad.github.io/2025/11/28/size-matters.html) (Alex
  Kladov): I'm skeptical of organizations that just grab Google's style guide without
  thinking hard about _why_ style matters. Alex zooms in on file/module size here,
  articulating some deep-held intuitions.
  
