---
title: "Weekly Links #23"
date: 2025-03-22
---

I hope everyone's had a good month! I might need to figure out another time to write these
posts if my weekends start getting busy again. I watched Severance S2E10 last night, and
my I'll keep my spoiler free review to just numbers: 9.5/10. 

## From the Webring
- [**The Secret Ingredient?**](https://alex-kaplan.ghost.io/the-secret-ingredient/) (Alex
  Kaplan): I'd bet most of us drink coffee every day without thinking much about what goes
  into a cup. I learned a ton from this post and really enjoyed the different threads Alex
  followed along the way.
  
## What I'm Watching

- **Severance S2E10: Cold Harbor** (Dan Erickson, Ben Stiller): My numbers-only,
spoiler-free review is 9.5/10. I really love the "protagonists are figuring out the rules
of this world along with the viewers" type of show, but LOST and Westworld are examples of
how these shows can jump the shark and start taking themselves too seriously. I'm glad
that Severance delivered a season finale that delivered on the show's themes, answering
some questions while avoiding the impulse to subvert everyone's expectations at every
turn.

## The Rest of It
  
- [**Upgrading Semgrep from OCaml 4 to OCaml
  5**](https://semgrep.dev/blog/2025/upgrading-semgrep-from-ocaml-4-to-ocaml-5/): Major
  version upgrades are hard. Maintainers often think every regression feels like the
  complaint in [xkcd 1172: Workflow](https://xkcd.com/1172/), but it's important to
  communicate tradeoffs and work to make upgrades as seamless as possible.

- [**Decorator JITs - Python as a
  DSL**](https://eli.thegreenplace.net/2025/decorator-jits-python-as-a-dsl/) (Eli
  Bendersky): Abstract syntax trees get me more excited than a cup of coffee, and this was
  a great read with illustrative examples about how Python's flexibility can make some
  things feel like magic.
  
- [**TeX and Typst: Layout Models**](https://laurmaedje.github.io/posts/layout-models/)
  (Laurenz Mädje): Knuth's TeX has stood the test of time, but Typst is an ambitious and
  exciting project to reinvent the one of the "wheels" of applied computer science for the
  21st century. I learned a lot reading about the different tradeoffs and design decisions
  Laurenz made in designing Typst. 
  
  I know this isn't the first use-case, but I'm interested in how Typst can evolve to
  replace Markdown for my own use. I'd love to have a lightweight but still expressive
  typesetting language that I could use on my blog and in presentations.
  
  
## MAKE-ing

- [**Building a smartwatch from
  scratch**](https://andrewchilds.com/posts/building-a-t1d-smartwatch-from-scratch)
  (Andrew Childs): Ten years after I [built my own digital
  watch](https://hackaday.io/project/3627-trinket-watch), I still love reading about other
  people's watch builds.
