---
title: "Weekly Links #26"
date: 2025-09-04
---

Welcome to The Weekly, back from summer vacation! While I did miss posting I'm still not
beating myself up about getting out of the routine.

I'm currently on a flight back from the VLDB conference in London. I had a really great
time! The papers were interesting, I got to catch up with a a handful of former coworkers,
and I even gave a talk in our sponsor slot on what I've been working on at my day job!
More than anything, though, it was awesome getting to pick the brains of a lot of
academics and practitioners that spend their day thinking about the same problems that I
do. There's a lot we can all learn from each other.

The Weekly will be a bit different over the next few installments. I did a much better job
than last year of collecting links that were interesting to me during my writing hiatus.
Each post will have a few entries from the summer in addition to anything new I read that
week.

Without further ado, on to the links!

## Databases

- [**Making Postgres distributed with
  FoundationDB**](https://fabianlindfors.se/blog/making-postgres-distributed/) (Fabian
  Lindfors): I realized recently that the OLTP query engines are a lot like browser
  engines. Writing a good one from scratch can take years because it requires handling a
  ton of edge cases (rewrite rules for query engines, vagaries of the HTML/CSS specs for
  browsers) and painstaking performance optimization. The easier path when building a
  product is to integrate the industry standard and focus on your actual value
  proposition.
  
  Browser engines have Chrome; query engines have Postgres. So many systems either build
  directly on top of it (Neon, Aurora, Yugabyte) or try to emulate it as closely as
  possible (CockroachDB). I found this project to be a pretty cool experiment, and as the
  article says, "a testament to just how extensible Postgres is."
  
- [**Dynamo, DynamoDB, and Aurora
  DSQL**](https://brooker.co.za/blog/2025/08/15/dynamo-dynamodb-dsql.html) (Marc Brooker):
  Compared to web developement or even programming languages theory and implementation,
  there's not _that_ much written online from folks deep in the guts of database
  systems. Marc's blog is an absolute joy to read, and I learn more than a few new things
  from every one of his posts.
  
  I'd read the Dynamo paper a few years ago and never even realized that DynamoDB was a
  completely different system than the one that was described. The evolution of
  distributed OLTP databases at Amazon over the past 15 years was fascinating. Marc's
  humility that back in 2010 nobody really knew how to build systems in the way we do now
  was also refreshing. It's okay to not get something "right" on the first try; Innovation
  is all about iteration.

## Tech and Society

- [**Advice for Tech
  Non-Profits**](https://mitchellh.com/writing/advice-for-tech-nonprofits) (Mitchell
  Hashimoto): It felt like this advice boils down to the fact that folks in software often
  forget that so many things in life are all about interpersonal relationships, which
  fundamentally don't scale in the same way that software does. In some ways, quite a
  simple takeaway, but it's an important reminder that we could all keep in mind.

- [**The evasive evitability of enshittification**](https://apenwarr.ca/log/20250530)
  (Avery Pennarun): An overview of enshittification, and what founders can do to avoid
  it. Product growth almost always slows. It's up to founders -- if they stay in control
  -- to choose to run the business sustainably *without* compromising the core product or
  user experience. 
  
  Avery presents a much healthier and even-keeled description of "founder mode" without
  mentioning Brian Chesky, Paul Graham, or the term itself. Founders have the clearest
  view of the kinds of things a company did (and didn't do) in order to earn the trust of
  users and customers and get to the place that it did. Building a product is riddled with
  Chesterson's fences that often knocked down if (and when) optimizing next quarter's
  profits becomes the priority over long-term user trust and satisfaction.
  
- [**Subscribe to my sponsors-only monthly
  newsletter**](https://simonwillison.net/2025/May/25/sponsors-only-newsletter/) (Simon
  Willison): I've long been interested in open-source business models. In addition to being an
  open-source maintainer, Simon has also become one of the more important and prolific
  journalistic voices in AI over the past few years. It's exciting to see him take a
  somewhat innovative tach in letting people pay him to send them less content than his
  famous link-blog firehose.

## Software Engineering
- [**TODOs aren't for doing**](https://sophiebits.com/2025/07/21/todos-arent-for-doing)
  (Sophie Alpert): At my current job this is very much our philosophy around TODOs in
  code: either you handle something "soon" somewhere in the stack of current PRs, or
  you'll handle it "someday", whenever you or someone else gets around to tidying up that
  area of the codebase. Tying absolutely everything to a ticket in JIRA can often be
  counterproductive.

- [**Why Was Apache Kafka
  Created?**](https://bigdata.2minutestreaming.com/p/why-was-apache-kafka-created)
  (Stanislav Kozlovski): I love these mini-histories into open-source technology. I didn't
  learn anything profound, but it's always interesting reading about how a given piece of
  technology came to be and why it's shaped in the way that it is.
