---
title: "Weekly Links #25"
date: 2025-05-18
---

Welcome to this month's Weekly! I've been putting in some work on other parts of this
site. I launched [my book review section](/reading) that I mentioned last time and seeded
it with some books I've read this year. I've also freshened up the site design a bit
sprinkling in some more sans-serif.

I'm starting to think about writing up the last installment in my nix-on-mac series,
covering nix modules and splitting out a flake into mulitiple files. I've had a draft of
this for over a year now and I'm thinking it's time to put pen to paper and ship it!

Anyways, on to the links:

<!--more-->

## Whimsy
- [**It is as if you were on your
  phone**](https://pippinbarr.com/it-is-as-if-you-were-on-your-phone/info/) (Pippin Barr):
  This was just delightful -- a scrolling simulator that runs on your phone, minus all the
  doom.
  
- [**Unparalleled
  Misalignments**](https://rickiheicklen.com/unparalleled-misalignments.html) (Ricki
  Heiklen): This page is a list of "pairs of non-synonymous phrases where the words in one
  phrase are each synonyms of the words in the other". Rather than explain more what that
  means, I'll just let you click the link and check it out -- this tickled a very
  particular part of my brain.

## Software
- [**Compiler Reminders**](https://jfmengels.net/compiler-reminders/) (Jeroen Engels):
  I've thought for a while that LLMs should do exceedingly well at this kind of
  compiler-driven development, and it seems like some of the models and agent frameworks
  like Claude Code and Cursor are doing pretty well here. I feel like if I were to go and
  get a PhD, I'd want to focus at this intersection of coding models and strong typing.

- [**Write the most clever code you possibly
  can**](https://buttondown.com/hillelwayne/archive/write-the-most-clever-code-you-possibly-can/)
  (Hillel Wayne): Stretching your ability for the sake of learning -- the title of this
  post is a bit clickbaity, but the sentiment boils down to "it's worth it to write code
  that you'll never commit".
  
## Miscellaneous

- [**Burn your title**](https://notes.eatonphil.com/2025-04-22-burn-your-title.html) (Phil
  Eaton): Another post to join [Tom
  MacWright's](https://macwright.com/2024/01/28/work-hard-and-take-everything-seriously)
  in the "what you spend 8 hours doing every day can be positive sum" genre. I generally
  think of "agency" and "ownership" are bland, corporate-speak-y words that don't inspire
  much excitement, and this post reframes the conceps in a way that puts the worker
  front-and-center. It's my experience that there are always niches to fill if you go
  looking for them.
  
- [**Reflections on 25 years of
  Interconnected**](https://interconnected.org/home/2025/02/19/reflections) (Matt Webb): I
  really enjoy _Interconnected_ but had no idea that it's been around for so long! Matt's
  recap of the different iterations of his blog over the course of the past
  quarter-century was a fun and relatively short ride through the history of the modern
  internet told through his personal perspective.
  
