---
title: "Weekly Links #32"
date: 2026-04-11
---

It honestly feels like it's been way longer than six weeks since my last Weekly. This
winter has been defined by lots of travel for me. All exciting and fulfilling, but not all
energizing. It's hard to find a rhythm without routine!

Last month I asked Devin to migrate my site way from SCSS. Without any additional
prompting it used Netlify previews attached to the PR to visually diff my production site
with its branch. $30 and an hour later [I had a finished PR ready to
review](https://github.com/davish/davi.sh/pull/43).

I've been using Cursor and other LLM-assisted coding tools for a while now. But I was
blown away by how Devin just used the existing tools on GitHub just like it was a human
developer. It was expensive, but still at least an order of magnitude less than I would
have had to pay a web developer to do the same work a few years ago.

- [**Defining Slop (Neurotica via Simon
  Willison)**](https://simonwillison.net/2026/Mar/23/neurotica/#atom-everything): "slop is
  something that takes more human effort to consume than it took to produce". 
  
  My experience with AI leads me to believe that it isn't all just slop by definition. AI
  can lower barriers and help produce
  [quality](https://davi.sh/reading/2025/zen-motorcycle/), but it's important for humans
  to do the hard work of ensuring that the output is actually coherent enough for others
  to consume. I've believed for a while that code is about communicating with other humans
  as much as it is about giving directions to a machine. I think agentic coding modifies
  this idea but doesn't do away with it completely. <br />

- [**Don't Let AI Write For You**](https://alexhwoods.com/dont-let-ai-write-for-you/)
  (Alex Woods): I consider writing to be an essential part of my thought process -- both
  prose and code. The act of writing shapes what I want to say or build. Fully automating
  a blog is a not-so-subtle note to your audience that you don't really respect the time
  they're spending reading your ideas.
  
- [**Eight years of wanting, three months of building with
  AI**](https://lalitm.com/post/building-syntaqlite-ai/#sn-ref-agents-got-good) (Lalit
  Maganti): If I can describe the benefit of LLMs to my professional life in one sentence,
  it's that agentic coding dramatically lowers the activation energy for new features and
  functionality. Once I can see _something_ working, it's so much easier to ride the
  feedback loop down to the bottom of the run. This was a great case study of that
  phenomenon in action.
  
- [**Every layer of review makes you 10x slower**](https://apenwarr.ca/log/20260316)
  (Avery Pennarun): I think the definining question of the next 18 months will be whether
  or not AI can diffuse through the rest of the economy as fast as it's disrupted and
  displaced programming. Software engineers have been saying for decades that writing code
  is the easy part. The industrialization of programming is changing a lot of things, but
  building and running organization is still the same challenge it's always been.
