---
title: "Weekly Links #33"
date: 2026-07-06
---

Welcome to a mid-summer edition of the Weekly! I spent the July 4th weekend in the San
Francisco Bay Area. 

This trip was the first time I'd spent more than 24 hours in the Bay in almost ten
years. Working in tech, I've obviously heard a lot about SF and the surrounding suburbs in
that time -- access to nature; much milder weather than the east coast (especially
pronounced when weather topped 95 degress in NYC for most of the weekend). It was nice to
see it all firsthand as an adult and understand a bit more intimately what people
appreciate about being out here.

<!--more-->

Thunderstorms in NYC kept me in San Francisco for an extra day, and I'm now writing this
mid-flight with some shoddy WiFi to load all the links I'll be writing about. I normally
opt out of WiFi on flights, but I'm realizing that non-Starlink airborne internet
providers are so slow that I'm not able to complete the [frantic site-switching feedback
loop that makes lots of my internet use feel
unproductive](/blog/2022/01/digital-mindfulness).

It's been a long time since the last installment but rather than appologize I'm here with
a larger-than-normal set of interesting links from my RSS feed and various roamings around
the internet!

# good vibes

- [**A line-by-line translation of the OCaml runtime from C to
  Rust**](https://discuss.ocaml.org/t/a-line-by-line-translation-of-the-ocaml-runtime-from-c-to-rust/18247)
  (Michael Barcarella): Google's original usecase for transformers was machine translation
  of human languages. Even given that, I continue to be impressed by their success in
  porting and translating large projects from one language to another. Yak shaving over
  language choice may soon be a thing of the past if translations like these get easy
  enough.
  
- [**Understanding systems**](https://entropicthoughts.com/understanding-systems) (Chris,
  Entropic Thoughts): LLMs may be well on their way to automating code generation, but
  they're not particularly good at maintaining a model of a system as a whole. It's more
  important than ever for human engineers to maintain and enforce an understnading of
  systems they're responsible for. I also appreciated what Chris had to say about tutoring
  because a lot of it was about the importance of _empathy_ in the process of transmitting
  knowledge and intuition to another person. More ways in which we can continue to provide
  meaningful value beyond the craft of writing code.
  
- [**A sufficiently comprehensive spec is not (necessarily)
  code**](https://buttondown.com/hillelwayne/archive/a-sufficiently-comprehensive-spec-is-not/)
  (Hillel Wayne): Hillel's main contention here is that a comprehensive spec can still
  describe multiple programs and doesn't restrict the implementation in the way that code
  does. I resonate with this on one level. Specs evolve over time, so architecture and
  abstractions in an implementation still matter.
  
  On the other hand, does code style really matter much if an LLM agent can rewrite an
  entire project in an entirely new programming language if the requirements and
  specification change?
  
  There's also the fact that the vast majority of programming languages don't describe how
  a program is actually run anymore. Optimizing compilers unroll loops, physical
  processors run instructions in pipelines and potentially speculate down multiple
  branches of execution. Programs already describe multiple potential physical sets of
  instructions that execute the program.
  
- [**Earendil**](https://earendil.com/) (Armin Ronacher and Colin Daymond Hanna): I just
  found this website delightfully quirky. It gives hope that instead of a blander
  internet, LLMs can make it easier to make your online presence a bit more idiosyncratic
  and weird.

# slop (alternatively: bad vibes)

- [**'We Don't Server Their Kind
  Here'**](https://daringfireball.net/2026/04/we_dont_serve_their_kind_here) (John
  Gruber): A short post connecting our problems in our present day to that long-ago, far
  away galaxy.
  
The remaining articles are all reflections on the proliferation of writing that lacks
humanity. Together they stand in contrast [the posts I collected earlier this year on
agentic programming crossing the chasm](/weekly/2026-03-01). They all speak to similar
themes, but all worth reading in thier own way. I'm presenting them here in publication
order.

- [**The social contract of
  writing**](https://jola.dev/posts/the-social-contract-of-writing) (Johanna Larsson)

- [**Quality in the Age of
  Slop**](https://sinclairtarget.com/blog/2026/06/01/quality-in-the-age-of-slop/)
  (Sinclair Target): This post had me at the mention of [one of my favorite reads of
  2025](/reading/2025/zen-motorcycle).
  
- [**Human Routers of Machine
  Words**](https://borretti.me/article/human-routers-of-machine-words) (Fernando Boretti)
  
- [**Legibility of Effort**](https://eieio.games/blog/legibility-of-effort/) (Nolen
  Royalty): We need a new proxy for human effort and thoughtfulness when LLMs can write
  code faster than we can read it.

# touching grass

- [**Midnight Train to Stockholm**](https://matduggan.com/midnight-train-to-stockholm/)
  (Mat Duggan): I love Mat's narrative posts -- they're always worth a read.
  
- [**The First of a Double-Take**](https://ratfactor.com/cards/first-of-a-double) (Dave
  Gauer): Human intuition is a wonderful thing.
  
- [**50 Hours to Draw Some
  Lines**](https://www.dougmacdowell.com/50-hours-to-draw-some-lines.html) (Doug
  MacDowell): What does it mean for knowledge work to be meditative? Doug describes his
  process for hand-drawn data visualizations. I enjoyed reading this in the context of us
  living through another instance of a technical field getting automated.
  
- [**Intermezzo bag**](https://macwright.com/2026/05/05/intermezzo-bag.html) (Tom
  MacWright): A single-purpose item crafted by hand. I've enjoyed the idea of picking up a
  crafting hobby, which seems so orthogonal to programming along almost every axis besides
  "making something you're proud of".

# systems and programming

- [**Rethinking the database from storage
  up**](https://www.databricks.com/blog/lakebase-ltap-rethinking-database-storage)
  (Reynold Xin): This post describes Databricks's new storage backend for their Lakebase
  product, which promises to marry a transactional Postgres interface backed by Parquet
  storage abstracted away with a service which translates the WAL to Parquet files and
  another which renders column-oriented Parquet files as Postgres data pages for
  consumption by the transactional layer.
  
  I'm sure performance relies a lot on caching and the specific internal semantics around
  Postgres's storage APIs, but I'm still left wondering how you can truly get all the
  benefits of Parquet storage with a transactional interface. Parquet files need to be
  large (on the order of hundreds of thousands of rows) in order to see meaningful
  compression. I'm also curious how this storage interacts with row-level indexes and
  deletes in Postgres, since Parquet isn't particularly amenable to row-level operations.

- [**Things you didn't know about
  indexes**](https://jon.chrt.dev/2026/04/15/things-you-didnt-know-about-indexes.html)
  (Jon Charter): Indexes are critical for any real use of a DBMS. Your ORM might abstract
  away what you can actually do with them.
  
- [**Serving files over HTTP three ways: synchronous, epoll, and
  io_uring**](https://theconsensus.dev/p/2026/05/18/serving-files-three-ways.html) (Phil
  Eaton): I'm really enjoying Phil's writing over at [**The
  Consensus**](https://theconsensus.dev/p/2026/05/18/serving-files-three-ways.html). This
  was a great introduction to Linux I/O APIs, and the examples built on top of each other
  well.
